# This file contains that Hungarian translation of features of the
# Raku Programming Language.
#
# CONTRIBUTORS: Polgár Márton (Martin Burger)
#
# See tools/build/L10N/README.md for more explanation.

# KEY             TRANSLATION
adverb-pc-delete  töröl
adverb-pc-exists  létezik
adverb-pc-k       k
adverb-pc-kv      ké
adverb-pc-p       p
adverb-pc-v       é

# KEY                TRANSLATION
#adverb-q-a           a
#adverb-q-array       array
#adverb-q-b           b
#adverb-q-backslash   backslash
#adverb-q-c           c
#adverb-q-closure     closure
#adverb-q-double      double
#adverb-q-exec        exec
#adverb-q-f           f
#adverb-q-function    function
#adverb-q-format      format
#adverb-q-h           h
#adverb-q-hash        hash
#adverb-q-heredoc     heredoc
#adverb-q-o           o
#adverb-q-q           q
#adverb-q-qq          qq
#adverb-q-quotewords  quotewords
#adverb-q-s           s
#adverb-q-scalar      scalar
#adverb-q-single      single
#adverb-q-to          to
#adverb-q-v           v
#adverb-q-val         val
#adverb-q-w           w
#adverb-q-words       words
#adverb-q-ww          ww
#adverb-q-x           x

# KEY                 TRANSLATION
adverb-rx-c           f
adverb-rx-continue    folytat
adverb-rx-ex          kim
adverb-rx-exhaustive  kimerítő
adverb-rx-g           g
adverb-rx-global      globális
#adverb-rx-i           i
#adverb-rx-ignorecase  ignorecase
#adverb-rx-ignoremark  ignoremark
#adverb-rx-ii          ii
#adverb-rx-m           m
#adverb-rx-mm          mm
adverb-rx-nd          odik
adverb-rx-nth         edik
adverb-rx-ov          átf
adverb-rx-overlap     átfedés
adverb-rx-p           p
adverb-rx-pos         poz
#adverb-rx-r           r
adverb-rx-ratchet     racsni
adverb-rx-rd          te
#adverb-rx-s           s
#adverb-rx-samecase    samecase
#adverb-rx-samemark    samemark
#adverb-rx-samespace   samespace
#adverb-rx-sigspace    sigspace
#adverb-rx-ss          ss
adverb-rx-st          ödik
adverb-rx-to          ig
adverb-rx-x           szer

# KEY           TRANSLATION
block-default   alapból
block-else      különben
block-elsif     különbenha
block-for       ezekre
block-given     adva
block-if        ha
block-loop      ciklus
block-orwith    vagyezzel
block-repeat    ismétel
block-unless    kivéveha
block-until     bis
block-when      amikor
block-whenever  valahányszor
block-while     amíg
block-with      ezzel
block-without   enélkül

# KEY             TRANSLATION
constraint-where  ahol

# KEY                  TRANSLATION
core-abs               abs
core-all               mind
core-antipairs         antipare
core-any               bármelyik
core-append            hozzáfűz
#core-ast               ast
#core-atomic-add-fetch  atomic-add-fetch
#core-atomic-assign     atomic-assign
#core-atomic-dec-fetch  atomic-dec-fetch
#core-atomic-fetch      atomic-fetch
#core-atomic-fetch-add  atomic-fetch-add
#core-atomic-fetch-dec  atomic-fetch-dec
#core-atomic-fetch-inc  atomic-fetch-inc
#core-atomic-fetch-sub  atomic-fetch-sub
#core-atomic-inc-fetch  atomic-inc-fetch
#core-atomic-sub-fetch  atomic-sub-fetch
core-await             kivár

# KEY          TRANSLATION
core-bag       tasche
core-bail-out  steig-aus
core-bless     segne

# KEY              TRANSLATION
#core-callframe     callframe
#core-callsame      callsame
#core-callwith      callwith
#core-can-ok        can-ok
#core-cas           cas
core-categorize    kategorisier
core-ceiling       decke
core-chars         zeichen
#core-chdir         chdir
#core-chmod         chmod
core-chomp         hack-linieende
core-chop          hack
#core-chown         chown
core-chr           wie-zeiche
core-chrs          wie-zeichen
core-classify      klassifizier
core-close         schließe
#core-cmp-ok        cmp-ok
core-codes         codes
core-comb          kamm
core-combinations  kombinationen
#core-conj          conj
core-contains      enthält
core-cross         kreuz

# KEY         TRANSLATION
core-decode   dekodiere
core-deepmap  tief-kartiere
core-defined  definiert
core-die      sterb
#core-dir      dir
core-done     fertig
core-duckmap  duck-kartiere

# KEY               TRANSLATION
core-elems          elemente
core-emit           sende
core-encode         kodiere
core-end            ende
core-ends-with      endet-mit
core-eval-dies-ok   eval-stirbt-ok
core-eval-lives-ok  eval-lebt-ok
core-exit           verlasse
core-exp            exp
core-expmod         expmod

# KEY              TRANSLATION
core-fail          scheitere
core-fails-like    scheitert-wie
#core-fc            fc
core-first         erste
core-flat          flach
core-flip          drehum
core-floor         boden
#core-fmt           fmt
#core-full-barrier  full-barrier

# KEY      TRANSLATION
core-get   erhalte
core-getc  erhaltez
core-gist  kern
core-grep  filter

# KEY      TRANSLATION
core-hash  hasch
core-head  kopf

# KEY           TRANSLATION
core-indent     einzug
core-index      index
core-indices    indizes
#core-indir      indir
core-is         ist
core-is-approx  ist-ungefähr
core-is-deeply  ist-im-ganzen
core-is-prime   ist-prim
core-isa-ok     istein-ok
core-isnt       istnicht
core-item       artikel

# KEY      TRANSLATION
core-join  verbinde

# KEY      TRANSLATION
core-key   schlüssel
core-keys  schlüssels
core-kv    sw

# KEY          TRANSLATION
core-last      letzte
core-lastcall  letzte-anruf
#core-lc        lc
core-like      wie
core-lines     linien
core-link      verknüpfung
core-list      liste
core-lives-ok  lebt-ok
core-lsb       niedrigstwertige-bit

# KEY        TRANSLATION
core-make    mache
core-map     kartiere
core-match   paar
core-max     max
core-min     min
core-minmax  minmax
core-mix     mix
#core-mkdir   mkdir
core-move    bewege
core-msb     höchstwertiges-bit

# KEY            TRANSLATION
core-new         neu
core-next        nächste
#core-nextcallee  nextcallee
#core-nextsame    nextsame
#core-nextwith    nextwith
core-nok         nicht-ok
core-none        kein
core-not         nicht
core-note        notiere

# KEY      TRANSLATION
core-ok    ok
core-one   ein
#core-open  open
core-ord   als-zahl
core-ords  als-zahlen

# KEY              TRANSLATION
core-pair          paar
core-pairs         paare
#core-parse-base    parse-base
core-pass          gut
core-permutations  permutationen
core-pick          pflücke
core-plan          plane
#core-pop           pop
core-prepend       stelle-voran
core-print         druck
core-printf        druckf
core-proceed       fortfahre
core-prompt        prompt
core-push          schiebe-oben
core-put           sag-es

# KEY            TRANSLATION
core-rand        zufällig
core-redo        nochmals
core-reduce      reduziere
core-repeated    wiederholt
#core-repl        repl
core-return      return
core-return-rw   return-rw
core-reverse     kehr-um
core-rindex      um-index
#core-rmdir       rmdir
core-roll        werfe
#core-roots       roots
core-rotate      drehe
core-round       runde-ab
core-roundrobin  jeder-mal
core-run         laufe

# KEY             TRANSLATION
#core-samecase     samecase
#core-samemark     samemmark
#core-samewith     samewith
core-say          sag
core-set          sammlung
#core-shell        shell
core-shift        schiebe-unter
#core-sign         sign
core-signal       signal
core-skip         überspringe
core-skip-rest    überspringe-alle
core-sleep        schlaf
core-sleep-timer  wecker
core-sleep-until  schlafe-bis
#core-slip         slip
core-slurp        schlürfe
#core-snip         snip
core-snitch       verpfeife
core-so           also
core-sort         sortier
core-splice       spleiße
core-split        teilt
core-sprintf      sdruckf
core-spurt        spritz
core-sqrt         quadratwurzel
core-squish       quetschen
core-srand        zufällig-so
core-starts-with  beginnt-mit
#core-subbuf       subbuf
#core-subbuf-rw    subbuf-rw
core-subst        ersetz
#core-substr       substr
#core-substr-eq    substr-eq
#core-substr-rw    substr-rw
core-subtest      subtest
core-succeed      gelinge
core-sum          summiere
core-symlink      symbolische-verknüpfung

# KEY               TRANSLATION
core-tail           schwanz
core-take           nim
core-take-rw        nmm-rw
#core-tc             tc
#core-tclc           tclc
core-throws-like    werft-wie
core-todo           zumachen
core-trans          übersetz
core-trim           trim
core-trim-leading   trim-führend
core-trim-trailing  trim-hinterher
core-truncate       kürzen

# KEY          TRANSLATION
#core-uc        uc
#core-unimatch  unimatch
#core-uniname   uniname
#core-uninames  uninames
#core-uniparse  uniparse
#core-uniprop   uniprop
#core-uniprops  uniprops
core-unique    einzigartig
#core-unival    unival
#core-univals   univals
core-unlike    nicht-wie
core-unlink    hebe-auf
#core-unpolar   unpolar
core-unshift   onderin
core-use-ok    verwende-ok

# KEY        TRANSLATION
core-val     wie-zahlen
core-value   wert
core-values  werte

# KEY          TRANSLATION
core-warn      warne
#core-wordcase  word-case
core-words     wörter

# KEY     TRANSLATION
core-zip  reißverschluss

# KEY             TRANSLATION
infix-(cont)      (enthält)
infix-(elem)      (element)
#infix-^ff         ^ff
#infix-^ff^        ^ff^
#infix-^fff        ^fff
#infix-^fff^       ^fff^
infix-after       nach
infix-and         und
infix-andthen     unddann
infix-before      vorher
infix-but         aber
infix-cmp         vergleich
#infix-coll        coll
infix-div         teile
infix-does        macht
infix-eq          gleich
#infix-ff          ff
#infix-ff^         ff^
#infix-fff         fff
#infix-fff^        fff^
#infix-gcd         gcd
infix-ge          größergleich
infix-gt          größer
#infix-lcm         lcm
infix-le          kleinergleich
infix-leg         kgg
infix-lt          kleiner
infix-max         max
infix-min         min
infix-minmax      minmax
infix-mod         modulo
infix-ne          ungleich
infix-notandthen  nichtunddann
infix-o           o
infix-or          oder
infix-orelse      oderanders
#infix-unicmp      unicmp
infix-x           x
infix-X           X
infix-xx          xx
infix-Z           R

# KEY   TRANSLATION
meta-R  U
meta-X  X
meta-Z  R

# KEY             TRANSLATION
modifier-for      füralle
modifier-given    gegeben
modifier-if       wenn
modifier-unless   wennnicht
modifier-until    bis
modifier-when     wann
modifier-while    solange
modifier-with     mit
modifier-without  ohne

# KEY        TRANSLATION
#multi-multi  multi
multi-only   nur
#multi-proto  proto

# KEY           TRANSLATION
named-absolute  absolut
named-actions   actionen
#named-api       api
named-append    anhängen
#named-arg0      arg0
#named-args      args
#named-as        as
#named-at        at
#named-auth      auth

# KEY            TRANSLATION
#named-basename   basename
#named-batch      batch
#named-bin        bin
#named-bleed      bleed
#named-broadcast  broadcast

# KEY             TRANSLATION
#named-catch       catch
#named-check       check
#named-chomp       chomp
named-close       schließe
#named-command     command
#named-complement  complement
named-completely  vollständig
named-continue    fortsetzen
#named-control     control
named-count       anzahl
#named-create      create
#named-createonly  createonly
#named-cwd         cwd
#named-CWD         CWD

# KEY          TRANSLATION
named-date     datum
named-day      tag
#named-degree   degree
named-delete   streiche
#named-dirname  dirname

# KEY             TRANSLATION
named-elems       elementen
#named-emit-timed  emit-timed
#named-enc         enc
#named-encoding    encoding
named-end         vonende
#named-err         err
named-every       jeder
named-ex          er
named-exclusive   exclusiv
named-exhaustive  erschöpfend
named-expires     läuftab

# KEY            TRANSLATION
#named-family     family
#named-filename   filename
named-filter     filter
named-formatter  formatter

# KEY         TRANSLATION
named-g       g
#named-gid     gid
named-global  globális

# KEY       TRANSLATION
#named-host  host
named-hour  óra

# KEY             TRANSLATION
#named-i           i
#named-ignorecase  ignorecase
#named-ignoremark  ignoremark
#named-ii          ii
named-in          ebben
named-into        ebbe

# KEY         TRANSLATION
#named-joiner  joiner

# KEY      TRANSLATION
named-k    k
named-key  kulcs
named-kv   ké

# KEY            TRANSLATION
named-listen     hallgat
#named-localhost  localhost
#named-localport  localport

# KEY         TRANSLATION
#named-match   match
#named-merge   merge
named-minute  perc
#named-mm      mm
named-mode    mód
named-month   hónap

# KEY               TRANSLATION
named-name          név
named-nd            dik
#named-nl            nl
#named-nl-in         nl-in
#named-nl-out        nl-out
#named-non-blocking  non-blocking
named-nth           dik

# KEY             TRANSLATION
named-off         ki
#named-out         out
#named-out-buffer  out-buffer
named-ov          átf
named-overlap     átfedés

# KEY          TRANSLATION
#named-p        p
named-partial  részleges
named-parts    részek
#named-port     port
named-pos      poz
#named-primary  primary

# KEY             TRANSLATION
#named-quaternary  quaternary

# KEY              TRANSLATION
#named-r            r
named-rd           dik
#named-real         real
named-replacement  csere
#named-rule         rule
#named-rw           rw
#named-rx           rx

# KEY              TRANSLATION
#named-samecase     samecase
#named-samemark     samemark
#named-samespace    samespace
#named-scheduler    scheduler
named-second       másodperc
#named-secondary    secondary
named-seconds      másodpercek
#named-shared       shared
named-size         méret
#named-slip         slip
#named-SPEC         SPEC
named-squash       quetschen
#named-ss           ss
named-st           dik
#named-status       status
named-strict       szigorú
named-subscript    alsóindex
named-superscript  felsőindex

# KEY               TRANSLATION
#named-tertiary      tertiary
named-test          teszt
named-th            dik
named-times         ennyiszer
named-timezone      időzóna
#named-translate-nl  translate-nl
#named-truncate      truncate

# KEY         TRANSLATION
#named-uid     uid
#named-update  update

# KEY          TRANSLATION
named-v        é
named-value    érték
#named-vent-at  vent-at
#named-ver      ver
#named-volume   volume

# KEY                    TRANSLATION
#named-w                  w
named-where              ahol
#named-win-verbatim-args  win-verbatim-args

# KEY    TRANSLATION
#named-x  mal

# KEY       TRANSLATION
named-year  év

# KEY            TRANSLATION
package-class    osztály
package-grammar  nyelvtan
package-module   modul
package-package  csomag
package-role     szerep

# KEY           TRANSLATION
#phaser-BEGIN    BEGIN
phaser-CATCH    LEKEZELÉS
#phaser-CHECK    CHECK
phaser-CLOSE    BEZÁRÁS
phaser-CONTROL  VEZÉRLÉS
#phaser-DOC      DOC
phaser-END      VÉGE
phaser-ENTER    BELÉPÉS
phaser-FIRST    ELSŐ
#phaser-INIT     INIT
phaser-KEEP     MEGTARTÁS
phaser-LAST     UTOLSÓ
phaser-LEAVE    KILÉPÉS
phaser-NEXT     KÖVETKEZŐ
phaser-POST     POSZT
phaser-PRE      PRE
phaser-QUIT     BEZÁRÁS
phaser-UNDO     VISSZAVONÁS

# KEY                      TRANSLATION
#pragma-dynamic-scope       dynamic-scope
#pragma-fatal               fatal
#pragma-internals           internals
#pragma-invocant            invocant
#pragma-isms                isms
#pragma-lib                 lib
#pragma-MONKEY              MONKEY
#pragma-MONKEY-GUTS         MONKEY-GUTS
#pragma-MONKEY-SEE-NO-EVAL  MONKEY-SEE-NO-EVAL
#pragma-MONKEY-TYPING       MONKEY-TYPING
#pragma-nqp                 nqp
#pragma-precompilation      precompilation
#pragma-soft                soft
#pragma-strict              strict
#pragma-trace               trace
#pragma-variables           variables
#pragma-worries             worries

# KEY       TRANSLATION
prefix-not  nem
prefix-so   tehát

# KEY              TRANSLATION
routine-method     metódus
routine-regex      regex
routine-rule       szabály
routine-sub        szub
routine-submethod  szubmetódus
routine-token      token

# KEY           TRANSLATION
scope-anon      anonim
scope-augment   bővít
scope-constant  konstans
scope-has       bír
scope-HAS       BÍR
scope-my        enyém
scope-our       miénk
scope-state     állapot
scope-unit      egység

# KEY                TRANSLATION
stmt-prefix-also     szintén
stmt-prefix-do       csinál
stmt-prefix-eager    buzgó
stmt-prefix-gather   gyűjt
stmt-prefix-hyper    hyper
stmt-prefix-lazy     lusta
stmt-prefix-quietly  halkan
stmt-prefix-race     verseny
stmt-prefix-react    reagál
stmt-prefix-sink     süllyeszt
stmt-prefix-start    indít
stmt-prefix-supply   ellát
stmt-prefix-try      próbál

# KEY      TRANSLATION
term-nano  nano
term-now   most
term-pi    pi
term-rand  véletlen
term-self  maga
term-tau   tau
term-time  idő

# KEY                           TRANSLATION
#trait-is-built                  built
trait-is-copy                   másolat
trait-is-default                alapvető
trait-is-DEPRECATED             ELAVULT
trait-is-equiv                  ekvivalens
trait-is-export                 export
#trait-is-hidden-from-backtrace  hidden-from-backtrace
#trait-is-hidden-from-USAGE      hidden-from-USAGE
trait-is-implementation-detail  implementációs-részlet
trait-is-looser                 lazább
#trait-is-nodal                  nodális
trait-is-pure                   tiszta
trait-is-raw                    nyers
trait-is-rw                     írható-olvasható
#trait-is-test-assertion         test-assertion
trait-is-tighter                szűkebb

# KEY             TRANSLATION
traitmod-does     csinál
traitmod-handles  kezel
traitmod-hides    elrejt
traitmod-is       ez
traitmod-of       ebből
traitmod-returns  visszatér
traitmod-trusts   megbízik

# KEY         TRANSLATION
#typer-enum    enum
#typer-subset  részhalmaz

# KEY        TRANSLATION
use-import   importál
use-need     szükséges
use-no       nincs
#use-require  require
use-use      használ

# vim: expandtab shiftwidth=4
